[APM] Add best practices for API testing (#167507)
elastic/kibana: x-pack/plugins/apm/dev_docs/testing.md

For end-to-end (e.g. agent -> apm server -> elasticsearch <- kibana) development and testing of Elastic APM please check the the [APM Integration Testing repository](https://github.com/elastic/apm-integration-testing).

Data can also be generated using the [kbn-apm-synthtrace](../../../../packages/kbn-apm-synthtrace/README.md) CLI.

> ## Best practices for API tests

Reviewer: We have a lot of unit tests that are mocking out Elasticsearch and should probably have been API tests in the first place. Example: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/07f1c36df72a61e6a86d617e5170d3d1f3b2b504/x-pack/plugins/apm/server/routes/errors/distribution/queries.test.ts. We have [an issue](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues/152557) that captures that problem.

Perhaps add a comment when something should be an API test instead of a unit test.

Author: Added a comment in [`082ca04` (#167507)](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/167507/commits/082ca04138f461075bb24975c1ac495f82c02949)

### 1. File structure:

- **Endpoint-specific testing**: Each API endpoint should ideally be tested in an individual `*.spec.ts` file. This makes it easy to find tests, and works well with our general approach of having single-purpose API endpoints.
- **Directory structure**: Organize these files into feature-specific folders to make navigation easier. Each feature-specific folder can have multiple `*.spec.ts` files related to that particular feature.

### 2. Data:

- **Prefer Synthtrace**: Use Synthtrace for all new tests. It offers better control over data being fed into Elasticsearch, making it easier to verify calculated statistics than using Elasticsearch archives.

> - **Migrating existing tests**: Aim to migrate existing tests that are based on Elasticsearch archives to Synthtrace. If for some reason Synthtrace isn't suitable, it's preferable to manually index documents rather than using ES archives.

Reviewer 2: Really good pint

- **Alerting**: For tests that require alerting data, use the `createApmRule` and `waitForRuleStatus` helpers. `createApmRule` sets some defaults when creating a rule, and `waitForRuleStatus` only return when a certain status is matching your expectations. This allows you to e.g. wait until an alert fires or recovers after exceeding a threshold

### 3. Scope of tests:

- **Different configurations**: Tests can run for different configurations. This allows us to keep e.g. a test whether an endpoint correctly throws with a failed license check in the same file as one that tests the return values from the endpoint if a license check doesn't fail.
- **Specificity**: Make checks as detailed as possible. Avoid broad "has data" checks, especially when return values can be controlled by Synthtrace. Avoid using snapshot testing.
- **Error handling**: For API endpoints that might return specific error codes or messages, ensure there are tests covering those specific scenarios.

### 4. Security and access control:

> - **User privileges**: If your endpoint requires write privileges, use `apm.writeUser`. Or any of the other predefined roles, whichever apply. Don't use roles with higher access levels unless required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **User privileges**: For calling APIs use `apm.readUser` whenever possible. If the endpoint requires write privileges, use `apm.writeUser` or any of the other predefined roles, whichever apply. Don't use roles with higher access levels unless required.
```
